# AutoCalibration - Isolated testing
### *Nicolas GAUTTIER*

## Description

This project isolates the **metric upgrade (autocalibration step)** from the full Structure-from_Motion (SfM) pipeline to carry out precise and controlled testing. The recovery of the intrinsic matrix through the method of the image of the absolute quadric is implemented and tested.

The core C++ codebase in `/src` computes the metric upgrade in different conditions (fixed/varying intrinsics, different camera_spacing and focal lengths, ...) and with different methods. Several criteria are used to evaluate the performance of each method.

A python notebook in `/python_plot` allows performance analysis of the metric upgrade methods.

---

## How to reproduce ?

1. Build the project using Cmake

2. In `main.cpp`, uncomment the desired test functions from `testing_functions.cpp`. Those carry out metric upgrades and output the results with a naming consistent with that of the plotting scripts to facilitate analysis with lots of tests.

3. Run the binary to produce results in `/results`.

4. Use the Jupyther notebook `print_graphs.ipynb` functions to graph the results

> **Note :** Results from previous experiments are stored in `/results`. The current notebook can be directly built with the results already present there.

---

## Project structure

- `/src/`
  - `main.cpp`: Entry point to run experiments.
  - `testing_functions.hpp/cpp`: Test scenarios for metric upgrades.
  - `utils_for_testing.hpp/cpp`: Auxiliary functions for setting up experiments.
  - `libmv.hpp/cpp`: Core implementation of the metric upgrade (adapted from libmv).

- `/results/`: Stores result files generated by experiments.

- `/python_plot/`
  - `print_graphs.ipynb`: Jupyter notebook for plotting and analyzing results.

---

## Acknowledgments

This library is inspired by the `libmv/multiview library` and an adaptation by Simon Weber to make it compatible with the rootba library. Pollefeys and Triggs theoretical work on autocalibration motivate the metric upgrade algorithm used.